{\rtf1\fbidis\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset1 Segoe UI Symbol;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset1 Cambria Math;}{\f3\fnil Times New Roman;}{\f4\fnil\fcharset1 Segoe UI Symbol;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.22621}{\*\mmathPr\mmathFont2\mwrapIndent1440 }\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sl240\slmult1\qj\f0\fs20\lang9 What Are Networking Protocols?\par
\par
A network protocol is a set of rules and standards that define how data is transmitted, formatted, and received between devices.\par
\par
Think of it like language rules in communication.\par
\par
Example:\par
\par
When you send a message online, protocols decide:\par
\par
how the message is packaged\par
\par
where it is sent\par
\par
how it is verified\par
\par
how it is received\par
\par
Without protocols, computers cannot understand each other.\par
\par
2. Why Networking Protocols Are Important in Cybersecurity\par
\par
Protocols are critical because they affect:\par
\par
1\u-497?\f1\u8419?\f0  Data Transmission Security\par
\par
They control how data moves across networks.\par
\par
Example:\par
\par
HTTP \f2\u8594?\f3  \f0 not secure\par
\par
HTTPS \f2\u8594?\f3  \f0 encrypted and secure\par
\par
2\u-497?\f1\u8419?\f0  Authentication\par
\par
Protocols can verify who is allowed to access a network.\par
\par
Example:\par
\par
Kerberos\par
\par
RADIUS\par
\par
3\u-497?\f1\u8419?\f0  Encryption\par
\par
Some protocols encrypt data to protect confidentiality.\par
\par
Example:\par
\par
SSL/TLS\par
\par
IPsec\par
\par
4\u-497?\f1\u8419?\f0  Network Monitoring\par
\par
Security teams analyze protocol traffic to detect attacks like:\par
\par
Malware communication\par
\par
Data exfiltration\par
\par
Command & Control traffic\par
\par
Tools used:\par
\par
Wireshark\par
\par
Snort\par
\par
Zeek\par
\par
3. Protocols and the OSI Model\par
\par
Networking protocols operate in layers defined by the OSI model.\par
\par
There are 7 layers.\par
\par
Layer\tab Function\tab Example Protocols\par
Application\tab User interaction\tab HTTP, FTP\par
Presentation\tab Encryption & formatting\tab SSL/TLS\par
Session\tab Session management\tab NetBIOS\par
Transport\tab Data delivery\tab TCP, UDP\par
Network\tab Routing\tab IP, ICMP\par
Data Link\tab MAC communication\tab ARP\par
Physical\tab Hardware transmission\tab Ethernet\par
\par
Cybersecurity professionals must know which protocol works at which layer.\par
\par
4. Major Networking Protocols in Cybersecurity\par
1\u-497?\f1\u8419?\f0  HTTP (Hypertext Transfer Protocol)\par
\par
Purpose:\par
Transfers web pages between browser and server.\par
\par
Example:\par
\par
http://example.com\par
\par
Problem:\par
\par
Data is not encrypted\par
\par
Vulnerable to:\par
\par
packet sniffing\par
\par
session hijacking\par
\par
Attack example:\par
\par
Man-in-the-Middle attack\par
\par
Solution:\par
Use HTTPS\par
\par
2\u-497?\f1\u8419?\f0  HTTPS (Secure HTTP)\par
\par
Purpose:\par
Secure web communication.\par
\par
It uses:\par
\par
TLS encryption\par
\par
Security benefits:\par
\par
Data encryption\par
\par
Authentication\par
\par
Data integrity\par
\par
Example attack prevented:\par
\par
credential stealing\par
\par
3\u-497?\f1\u8419?\f0  TCP (Transmission Control Protocol)\par
\par
Purpose:\par
Ensures reliable data delivery.\par
\par
Features:\par
\par
Error checking\par
\par
Packet ordering\par
\par
Connection establishment\par
\par
Example:\par
\par
Email\par
\par
Web browsing\par
\par
Security issues:\par
\par
TCP SYN Flood attacks\par
\par
4\u-497?\f1\u8419?\f0  UDP (User Datagram Protocol)\par
\par
Purpose:\par
Fast but unreliable communication.\par
\par
Used for:\par
\par
Video streaming\par
\par
Online gaming\par
\par
VoIP\par
\par
Characteristics:\par
\par
No connection\par
\par
No error checking\par
\par
Security risk:\par
\par
UDP Flood attacks (DDoS)\par
\par
5\u-497?\f1\u8419?\f0  IP (Internet Protocol)\par
\par
Purpose:\par
Provides device addressing and routing.\par
\par
Every device has an IP address.\par
\par
Example:\par
\par
192.168.1.1\par
\par
Security concerns:\par
\par
IP spoofing\par
\par
packet injection\par
\par
6\u-497?\f1\u8419?\f0  DNS (Domain Name System)\par
\par
Purpose:\par
Converts domain names into IP addresses.\par
\par
Example:\par
\par
google.com \f2\u8594?\f3  \f0 142.250.190.78\par
\par
Cyber attacks involving DNS:\par
\par
DNS spoofing\par
\par
DNS poisoning\par
\par
DNS tunneling (data exfiltration)\par
\par
7\u-497?\f1\u8419?\f0  ARP (Address Resolution Protocol)\par
\par
Purpose:\par
Maps IP address \f2\u8594?\f3  \f0 MAC address.\par
\par
Example:\par
\par
IP: 192.168.1.5\par
MAC: 00:1A:2B:3C:4D\par
\par
Major attack:\par
\par
ARP Spoofing\par
Used in:\par
\par
Man-in-the-middle attacks\par
\par
Network interception\par
\par
8\u-497?\f1\u8419?\f0  ICMP (Internet Control Message Protocol)\par
\par
Purpose:\par
Used for network diagnostics.\par
\par
Example command:\par
\par
ping google.com\par
\par
Security problems:\par
\par
Attackers use ICMP for:\par
\par
network scanning\par
\par
ICMP flood attacks\par
\par
covert data channels\par
\par
9\u-497?\f1\u8419?\f0  FTP (File Transfer Protocol)\par
\par
Purpose:\par
Transfers files between systems.\par
\par
Example:\par
\par
uploading files to servers\par
\par
Problem:\par
\par
No encryption\par
\par
Attack:\par
\par
credential sniffing\par
\par
Secure alternatives:\par
\par
SFTP\par
\par
FTPS\par
\par
\f4\u-10179?\u-8929?\f3  \f0 SMTP (Simple Mail Transfer Protocol)\par
\par
Purpose:\par
Used to send emails.\par
\par
Example:\par
\par
mail server \f2\u8594?\f3  \f0 mail server\par
\par
Security risks:\par
\par
Email spoofing\par
\par
Spam\par
\par
Phishing\par
\par
Security solutions:\par
\par
SPF\par
\par
DKIM\par
\par
DMARC\par
\par
5. Secure Networking Protocols\par
\par
Security professionals prefer secure protocols.\par
\par
Insecure Protocol\tab Secure Version\par
HTTP\tab HTTPS\par
FTP\tab SFTP\par
Telnet\tab SSH\par
POP3\tab POP3S\par
IMAP\tab IMAPS\par
6. Common Protocol Attacks\par
Man-in-the-Middle Attack\par
\par
Attacker intercepts communication between two systems.\par
\par
Protocols targeted:\par
\par
ARP\par
\par
HTTP\par
\par
DNS\par
\par
DNS Spoofing\par
\par
Fake DNS responses redirect users to malicious websites.\par
\par
SYN Flood Attack\par
\par
Overloads a server by sending many TCP connection requests.\par
\par
Packet Sniffing\par
\par
Attackers capture network packets to steal:\par
\par
passwords\par
\par
cookies\par
\par
credentials\par
\par
Tools:\par
\par
Wireshark\par
\par
Tcpdump\par
\par
7. Protocol Analysis in Cybersecurity\par
\par
Cybersecurity professionals analyze protocols using tools like:\par
\par
Wireshark\par
\par
Captures and analyzes network packets.\par
\par
Nmap\par
\par
Used for:\par
\par
port scanning\par
\par
protocol detection\par
\par
Snort\par
\par
Intrusion Detection System (IDS)\par
\par
8. Protocol Ports (Important for Cybersecurity)\par
\par
Each protocol uses a port number.\par
\par
Protocol\tab Port\par
HTTP\tab 80\par
HTTPS\tab 443\par
FTP\tab 21\par
SSH\tab 22\par
DNS\tab 53\par
SMTP\tab 25\par
Telnet\tab 23\par
\par
Attackers scan ports to find vulnerabilities.\par
\par
9. Networking Protocols in Ethical Hacking\par
\par
Ethical hackers study protocols to:\par
\par
find vulnerabilities\par
\par
perform penetration testing\par
\par
detect weak configurations\par
\par
Example activities:\par
\par
Packet sniffing\par
\par
DNS enumeration\par
\par
TCP scanning\par
\par
Protocol fuzzing\par
\par
10. Why Networking Protocol Knowledge is Critical for Cybersecurity\par
\par
A cybersecurity expert must understand protocols to:\par
\par
detect network attacks\par
\par
secure communications\par
\par
analyze malware traffic\par
\par
monitor suspicious network activity\par
\par
Many attacks happen at the network level.\par
\par
Quick Cybersecurity Revision Summary\par
\par
Networking protocols:\par
\par
\f1\u10004?\f3  \f0 Control device communication\par
\f1\u10004?\f3  \f0 Define how data is transmitted\par
\f1\u10004?\f3  \f0 Provide authentication and encryption\par
\f1\u10004?\f3  \f0 Can be exploited by attackers\par
\par
Major protocols to remember:\par
\par
HTTP / HTTPS\par
\par
TCP / UDP\par
\par
IP\par
\par
DNS\par
\par
ARP\par
\par
ICMP\par
\par
FTP\par
\par
SMTP\par
\par
\f1\u9989?\f3  \f0 If you want, I can also show you:\par
\par
The 20 MOST IMPORTANT networking protocols for cybersecurity students\par
\par
Networking protocols every ethical hacker must memorize\par
\par
How hackers exploit networking protocols (real attack examples)\par
\par
Networking protocol cheat sheet for exams and SOC analysts.\par
\par
1\par
\par
You chose \f3\ldblquote\f0 The 20 most important networking protocols for cybersecurity students.\f3\rdblquote\f0\par
Understanding these protocols helps you analyze attacks, monitor traffic, and secure networks. I will group them so they are easier to study.\par
\par
20 Most Important Networking Protocols in Cybersecurity\par
1. Web Protocols\par
1\u-497?\f1\u8419?\f0  HTTP (Hypertext Transfer Protocol)\par
\par
Purpose: Transfers web pages between browser and server.\par
\par
Example:\par
\par
When you open a website, your browser sends an HTTP request to a server.\par
\par
Security Issue:\par
\par
Data is not encrypted.\par
\par
Attackers can sniff usernames and passwords.\par
\par
Common Attacks:\par
\par
Session hijacking\par
\par
Man-in-the-Middle attack\par
\par
2\u-497?\f1\u8419?\f0  HTTPS (Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure)\par
\par
Purpose: Secure version of HTTP.\par
\par
Uses:\par
\par
TLS encryption\par
\par
Benefits:\par
\par
Data confidentiality\par
\par
Authentication\par
\par
Integrity\par
\par
Used by:\par
\par
Online banking\par
\par
Secure websites\par
\par
2. Transport Protocols\par
3\u-497?\f1\u8419?\f0  TCP (Transmission Control Protocol)\par
\par
Purpose:\par
Provides reliable data delivery.\par
\par
Features:\par
\par
Packet ordering\par
\par
Error correction\par
\par
Handshake connection\par
\par
Important Concept:\par
\par
TCP 3-Way Handshake\par
\par
SYN\par
\par
SYN-ACK\par
\par
ACK\par
\par
Security Attack:\par
\par
SYN Flood (DDoS)\par
\par
4\u-497?\f1\u8419?\f0  UDP (User Datagram Protocol)\par
\par
Purpose:\par
Fast data transfer without reliability checks.\par
\par
Used in:\par
\par
Video streaming\par
\par
Online gaming\par
\par
DNS queries\par
\par
Security Risk:\par
\par
UDP Flood attacks\par
\par
3. Network Protocols\par
5\u-497?\f1\u8419?\f0  IP (Internet Protocol)\par
\par
Purpose:\par
Provides logical addressing for devices.\par
\par
Example IP:\par
\par
192.168.1.1\par
\par
Security Issues:\par
\par
IP spoofing\par
\par
Packet manipulation\par
\par
6\u-497?\f1\u8419?\f0  ICMP (Internet Control Message Protocol)\par
\par
Purpose:\par
Used for network diagnostics.\par
\par
Example command:\par
\par
ping google.com\par
\par
Security Risks:\par
\par
Network reconnaissance\par
\par
ICMP flood\par
\par
4. Address Resolution Protocol\par
7\u-497?\f1\u8419?\f0  ARP (Address Resolution Protocol)\par
\par
Purpose:\par
Maps IP address to MAC address.\par
\par
Example:\par
\par
IP \f2\u8594?\f3  \f0 MAC\par
\par
Security Attack:\par
\par
ARP Spoofing\par
\par
Used in Man-in-the-Middle attacks\par
\par
5. Domain Name Protocol\par
8\u-497?\f1\u8419?\f0  DNS (Domain Name System)\par
\par
Purpose:\par
Converts domain names to IP addresses.\par
\par
Example:\par
\par
facebook.com \f2\u8594?\f3  \f0 157.240.22.35\par
\par
Security Attacks:\par
\par
DNS poisoning\par
\par
DNS spoofing\par
\par
DNS tunneling\par
\par
6. Remote Access Protocols\par
9\u-497?\f1\u8419?\f0  SSH (Secure Shell)\par
\par
Purpose:\par
Secure remote login to systems.\par
\par
Example:\par
\par
Server administration\par
\par
Security Advantage:\par
\par
Encrypted communication\par
\par
Used heavily by:\par
\par
Linux administrators\par
\par
Ethical hackers\par
\par
\f4\u-10179?\u-8929?\f3  \f0 Telnet\par
\par
Purpose:\par
Remote login protocol.\par
\par
Problem:\par
\par
No encryption\par
\par
Because of this, Telnet is mostly replaced by SSH.\par
\par
7. File Transfer Protocols\par
1\u-497?\f1\u8419?\f0 1\u-497?\f1\u8419?\f0  FTP (File Transfer Protocol)\par
\par
Purpose:\par
Transfer files between computers.\par
\par
Problem:\par
\par
Passwords sent in plain text\par
\par
Common attack:\par
\par
Credential sniffing\par
\par
1\u-497?\f1\u8419?\f0 2\u-497?\f1\u8419?\f0  SFTP (Secure File Transfer Protocol)\par
\par
Secure version of FTP.\par
\par
Benefits:\par
\par
Encryption\par
\par
Secure authentication\par
\par
8. Email Protocols\par
1\u-497?\f1\u8419?\f0 3\u-497?\f1\u8419?\f0  SMTP (Simple Mail Transfer Protocol)\par
\par
Purpose:\par
Sends emails between servers.\par
\par
Example:\par
\par
mail server \f2\u8594?\f3  \f0 mail server\par
\par
Security Issues:\par
\par
Email spoofing\par
\par
Spam\par
\par
Phishing\par
\par
1\u-497?\f1\u8419?\f0 4\u-497?\f1\u8419?\f0  POP3 (Post Office Protocol)\par
\par
Purpose:\par
Downloads emails from server to device.\par
\par
Security Risk:\par
\par
Data interception if not encrypted.\par
\par
1\u-497?\f1\u8419?\f0 5\u-497?\f1\u8419?\f0  IMAP (Internet Message Access Protocol)\par
\par
Purpose:\par
Access email directly on server.\par
\par
Difference from POP3:\par
\par
Emails stay on the server.\par
\par
9. Security Protocols\par
1\u-497?\f1\u8419?\f0 6\u-497?\f1\u8419?\f0  SSL (Secure Socket Layer)\par
\par
Purpose:\par
Encrypt internet communication.\par
\par
Used for:\par
\par
secure websites\par
\par
Note:\par
Mostly replaced by TLS.\par
\par
1\u-497?\f1\u8419?\f0 7\u-497?\f1\u8419?\f0  TLS (Transport Layer Security)\par
\par
Purpose:\par
Provides encryption for:\par
\par
HTTPS\par
\par
Email\par
\par
VPN\par
\par
Major security protocol today.\par
\par
1\u-497?\f1\u8419?\f0 8\u-497?\f1\u8419?\f0  IPsec (Internet Protocol Security)\par
\par
Purpose:\par
Encrypts IP packets.\par
\par
Used in:\par
\par
VPN connections\par
\par
Security Benefits:\par
\par
Confidentiality\par
\par
Authentication\par
\par
10. Authentication Protocols\par
1\u-497?\f1\u8419?\f0 9\u-497?\f1\u8419?\f0  Kerberos\par
\par
Purpose:\par
Secure authentication system.\par
\par
Used in:\par
\par
Windows Active Directory networks\par
\par
Benefit:\par
\par
Prevents password interception.\par
\par
2\u-497?\f1\u8419?\f0 0\u-497?\f1\u8419?\f0  RADIUS\par
\par
Purpose:\par
Centralized authentication for networks.\par
\par
Used for:\par
\par
WiFi authentication\par
\par
VPN access\par
\par
Example:\par
Enterprise network login.\par
\par
Why Cybersecurity Experts Must Know These Protocols\par
\par
Security professionals analyze these protocols to:\par
\par
\f1\u10004?\f3  \f0 detect malware communication\par
\f1\u10004?\f3  \f0 investigate cyber attacks\par
\f1\u10004?\f3  \f0 monitor network traffic\par
\f1\u10004?\f3  \f0 secure enterprise networks\par
\par
Most cyber attacks happen through network protocol exploitation.\par
\par
Quick Memorization Trick (Cybersecurity Exams)\par
\par
Group them:\par
\par
Web\par
\par
HTTP, HTTPS\par
\par
Transport\par
\par
TCP, UDP\par
\par
Network\par
\par
IP, ICMP\par
\par
Address Resolution\par
\par
ARP\par
\par
Domain\par
\par
DNS\par
\par
Remote Access\par
\par
SSH, Telnet\par
\par
File Transfer\par
\par
FTP, SFTP\par
\par
Email\par
\par
SMTP, POP3, IMAP\par
\par
Security\par
\par
SSL, TLS, IPsec\par
\par
Authentication\par
\par
Kerberos, RADIUS\par
\par
\f1\u9989?\f3  \f0 If you're studying cybersecurity or ethical hacking, I can also show you:\par
\par
10 networking protocols hackers exploit the most\par
\par
How SOC analysts detect attacks through protocols\par
\par
The networking protocols used in Kali Linux tools\par
\par
A visual diagram of how all protocols work together in a network (very useful for exams).\par
\par
4\par
\par
You selected \f3\ldblquote\f0 A visual diagram of how networking protocols work together in a network.\f3\rdblquote  \f0 I\f3\rquote\f0 ll explain it step-by-step so you can clearly understand how data travels across the internet using different protocols.\par
\par
How Networking Protocols Work Together (Cybersecurity View)\par
\par
When you open a website, many protocols work together in layers.\par
\par
Example:\par
You type google.com in your browser.\par
\par
The process happens like this:\par
\par
User\par
\f3  \f1\u9474?\f0\par
\f3  \f1\u9474?\f3  \f0 1. DNS Request\par
\f3  \f1\u9660?\f0\par
DNS Server\par
\f3  \f1\u9474?\f0\par
\f3  \f1\u9474?\f3  \f0 Returns IP address\par
\f3  \f1\u9660?\f0\par
Web Server\par
\f3  \f1\u9474?\f0\par
\f3  \f1\u9474?\f3  \f0 Data sent using HTTP/HTTPS\par
\f3  \f1\u9660?\f0\par
Your Browser\par
\par
But in reality, it is more complex. Let\f3\rquote\f0 s break it down.\par
\par
Step-by-Step Protocol Communication\par
1\u-497?\f1\u8419?\f0  DNS Resolution\par
\par
You type:\par
\par
www.google.com\par
\par
Your computer asks a DNS server:\par
\par
\f3\ldblquote\f0 What is the IP address of google.com?\f3\rdblquote\f0\par
\par
DNS replies:\par
\par
142.250.190.78\par
\par
Now your computer knows where to send the request.\par
\par
Security Risk:\par
\par
DNS spoofing\par
\par
DNS poisoning\par
\par
2\u-497?\f1\u8419?\f0  ARP Request (Local Network)\par
\par
Before sending data, your computer must know the MAC address of the router.\par
\par
So it sends:\par
\par
ARP Request \f2\u8594?\f3  \f0 Who has 192.168.1.1?\par
\par
Router responds with its MAC address.\par
\par
Security Risk:\par
\par
ARP Spoofing\par
\par
Man-in-the-Middle attack\par
\par
3\u-497?\f1\u8419?\f0  TCP Connection\par
\par
Your computer now establishes a connection using TCP.\par
\par
This happens through the 3-way handshake:\par
\par
Client \f2\u8594?\f3  \f0 SYN\par
Server \f2\u8594?\f3  \f0 SYN-ACK\par
Client \f2\u8594?\f3  \f0 ACK\par
\par
This creates a reliable connection.\par
\par
Security Risk:\par
\par
SYN Flood Attack\par
\par
4\u-497?\f1\u8419?\f0  TLS Encryption (for HTTPS)\par
\par
If the site uses HTTPS, the browser starts TLS encryption.\par
\par
Steps:\par
\par
Client Hello\par
Server Hello\par
Key Exchange\par
Secure Channel Established\par
\par
Now the communication becomes encrypted.\par
\par
Security Benefit:\par
\par
Protects passwords\par
\par
Prevents packet sniffing\par
\par
5\u-497?\f1\u8419?\f0  HTTP/HTTPS Request\par
\par
Your browser sends a request:\par
\par
GET /index.html HTTP/1.1\par
\par
The server responds with:\par
\par
HTML\par
Images\par
Scripts\par
Data\par
\par
Security Risks:\par
\par
Session hijacking\par
\par
Cross-site attacks\par
\par
Data interception (if HTTP)\par
\par
Full Protocol Flow Diagram\par
\par
Here is the simplified networking stack:\par
\par
Application Layer\par
\f1\u9474?\f0\par
\f1\u9474?\f3   \f0 HTTP / HTTPS\par
\f1\u9474?\f0\par
Transport Layer\par
\f1\u9474?\f0\par
\f1\u9474?\f3   \f0 TCP / UDP\par
\f1\u9474?\f0\par
Network Layer\par
\f1\u9474?\f0\par
\f1\u9474?\f3   \f0 IP\par
\f1\u9474?\f0\par
Data Link Layer\par
\f1\u9474?\f0\par
\f1\u9474?\f3   \f0 ARP / MAC\par
\f1\u9474?\f0\par
Physical Layer\par
\f1\u9474?\f0\par
\f1\u9474?\f3   \f0 Ethernet / WiFi\par
\par
Each layer performs a different function in communication.\par
\par
Real Example of Protocol Flow\par
\par
When visiting a website:\par
\par
Browser\par
\f3    \f1\u9474?\f0\par
\f3    \f1\u9474?\f3  \f0 DNS\par
\f3    \f1\u9660?\f0\par
Find server IP\par
\f3    \f1\u9474?\f0\par
\f3    \f1\u9474?\f3  \f0 TCP handshake\par
\f3    \f1\u9660?\f0\par
Secure connection (TLS)\par
\f3    \f1\u9474?\f0\par
\f3    \f1\u9474?\f3  \f0 HTTP request\par
\f3    \f1\u9660?\f0\par
Server sends webpage\par
\par
All of this happens in milliseconds.\par
\par
Where Hackers Attack in This Process\par
\par
Cyber attackers target different protocol stages:\par
\par
Stage\tab Protocol\tab Attack\par
DNS\tab DNS\tab DNS poisoning\par
Local Network\tab ARP\tab ARP spoofing\par
Connection\tab TCP\tab SYN flood\par
Encryption\tab TLS\tab downgrade attacks\par
Web Traffic\tab HTTP\tab session hijacking\par
Example Attack Scenario\par
\par
Man-in-the-Middle Attack:\par
\par
Victim \f2\u8594?\f3  \f0 Attacker \f2\u8594?\f3  \f0 Server\par
\par
Attacker uses:\par
\par
ARP spoofing\par
\par
Packet sniffing\par
\par
Fake certificates\par
\par
Goal:\par
Steal login credentials.\par
\par
Tools Cybersecurity Analysts Use to Monitor Protocols\par
\par
Network monitoring tools analyze protocol traffic:\par
\par
Packet analysis:\par
\par
Wireshark\par
\par
Network scanning:\par
\par
Nmap\par
\par
Intrusion detection:\par
\par
Snort\par
\par
These tools help detect:\par
\par
suspicious packets\par
\par
abnormal traffic\par
\par
malware communication\par
\par
Quick Memory Trick for Protocol Flow\par
\par
Remember this order:\par
\par
DNS \f2\u8594?\f3  \f0 ARP \f2\u8594?\f3  \f0 TCP \f2\u8594?\f3  \f0 TLS \f2\u8594?\f3  \f0 HTTP\par
\par
Meaning:\par
\par
Find server\par
\par
Find router\par
\par
Create connection\par
\par
Secure communication\par
\par
Request webpage\lang9\par
}
 
