{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset1 Cambria Math;}{\f2\fnil Calibri;}{\f3\fnil\fcharset1 Segoe UI Symbol;}{\f4\fnil\fcharset1 Segoe UI Symbol;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.22621}{\*\mmathPr\mmathFont1\mwrapIndent1440 }\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 1\b\fs44 . What the OSI Model Is (Simple Meaning)\b0\fs22\par
\par
The OSI Model is a framework that explains how computers communicate over a network.\par
\par
Think of it like a 7-step delivery process for sending a message from your computer to another computer on the internet.\par
\par
Example:\par
\par
You send a message from your laptop\par
\par
It passes through 7 stages\par
\par
It reaches the other person's device\par
\par
Each stage has a specific job.\par
\par
Cybersecurity experts use the OSI model to:\par
\par
understand how networks work\par
\par
detect attacks\par
\par
protect systems\par
\par
2. The 7 Layers of the OSI Model\par
\par
The OSI Model has 7 layers.\par
\par
From top to bottom:\par
\par
Application Layer\par
\par
Presentation Layer\par
\par
Session Layer\par
\par
Transport Layer\par
\par
Network Layer\par
\par
Data Link Layer\par
\par
Physical Layer\par
\par
A simple way to remember it:\par
\par
All People Seem To Need Data Processing\par
\par
3. How Data Moves in the OSI Model\par
\par
When sending data:\par
\par
Computer A\par
\par
Application\par
\f1\u8595?\f0\par
Presentation\par
\f1\u8595?\f0\par
Session\par
\f1\u8595?\f0\par
Transport\par
\f1\u8595?\f0\par
Network\par
\f1\u8595?\f0\par
Data Link\par
\f1\u8595?\f0\par
Physical\par
\par
Then it travels through the network.\par
\par
Computer B\par
\par
Physical\par
\f1\u8593?\f0\par
Data Link\par
\f1\u8593?\f0\par
Network\par
\f1\u8593?\f0\par
Transport\par
\f1\u8593?\f0\par
Session\par
\f1\u8593?\f0\par
Presentation\par
\f1\u8593?\f0\par
Application\par
\par
4. Why the OSI Model Is Important in Cybersecurity\par
\par
Cybersecurity experts use the OSI model to:\par
\par
Understand attacks\par
\par
Detect network problems\par
\par
Build security systems\par
\par
Protect data\par
\par
Example:\par
\par
Different attacks happen at different layers.\par
\par
Example attacks:\par
\par
DDoS Attack\par
\par
Man-in-the-Middle Attack\par
\par
ARP Spoofing\par
\par
Understanding the OSI model helps security experts know where the attack is happening.\par
\par
5. Layer 1 \f2\emdash  Physical Layer (The Hardware Layer)\par
\par
This is the lowest layer.\par
\par
It deals with physical devices and signals.\par
\par
Examples:\par
\par
cables\par
\par
network cards\par
\par
switches\par
\par
electrical signals\par
\par
Example devices:\par
\par
Ethernet cables\par
\par
fiber cables\par
\par
WiFi signals\par
\par
Its job:\par
\par
send raw bits (0 and 1) across the network.\par
\par
Example:\par
\par
Your laptop sends electric signals through a cable.\par
\par
Cybersecurity threats here include:\par
\par
cable tapping\par
\par
hardware attacks\par
\par
physical device tampering\par
\par
Example attack:\par
Someone plugs a rogue device into a network port.\par
\par
6. Layer 2 \emdash  Data Link Layer\par
\par
This layer manages communication between devices on the same network.\par
\par
It uses MAC addresses.\par
\par
Example:\par
Every device has a unique hardware address.\par
\par
Example device:\par
\par
laptop\par
\par
router\par
\par
printer\par
\par
Protocols used here include:\par
\par
Ethernet\par
\par
ARP\par
\par
Cybersecurity attack example:\par
\par
ARP Spoofing\par
\par
What happens:\par
A hacker pretends to be the router and intercepts network traffic.\par
\par
7. Layer 3 \emdash  Network Layer\par
\par
This layer handles IP addressing and routing.\par
\par
Main protocol:\par
\par
Internet Protocol\par
\par
This layer decides where data should go on the internet.\par
\par
Example:\par
\par
When you send data to Google, the system checks the IP address and finds the best path.\par
\par
Devices used:\par
\par
routers\par
\par
Cybersecurity attacks here:\par
\par
IP Spoofing\par
\par
Packet Sniffing\par
\par
Example:\par
A hacker changes the source IP to hide identity.\par
\par
8. Layer 4 \emdash  Transport Layer\par
\par
This layer ensures data arrives correctly.\par
\par
Main protocols:\par
\par
Transmission Control Protocol\par
\par
User Datagram Protocol\par
\par
This layer controls:\par
\par
speed\par
\par
reliability\par
\par
error checking\par
\par
Example:\par
\par
TCP\par
\par
reliable\par
\par
checks if data arrived\par
\par
UDP\par
\par
faster\par
\par
no checking\par
\par
Cybersecurity attacks here include:\par
\par
SYN Flood Attack\par
\par
This attack overloads servers with fake connection requests.\par
\par
9. Layer 5 \emdash  Session Layer\par
\par
This layer creates and manages communication sessions between devices.\par
\par
Example:\par
When you log into a website, a session starts.\par
\par
It manages:\par
\par
login sessions\par
\par
session reconnection\par
\par
session termination\par
\par
Cybersecurity threats:\par
\par
Session Hijacking\par
\par
Example:\par
\par
A hacker steals your session cookie and logs into your account.\par
\par
10. Layer 6 \emdash  Presentation Layer\par
\par
This layer prepares data for the application layer.\par
\par
It handles:\par
\par
encryption\par
\par
compression\par
\par
formatting\par
\par
Example:\par
\par
When you open a secure website:\par
\par
It uses Secure Sockets Layer or\par
Transport Layer Security\par
\par
These encrypt your data.\par
\par
Example:\par
When you see HTTPS in your browser.\par
\par
Cybersecurity importance:\par
\par
protects data\par
\par
prevents eavesdropping\par
\par
11. Layer 7 \emdash  Application Layer\par
\par
This is the layer closest to the user.\par
\par
This is where applications communicate with the network.\par
\par
Examples:\par
\par
web browsers\par
\par
email apps\par
\par
file transfer software\par
\par
Protocols used:\par
\par
Hypertext Transfer Protocol\par
\par
File Transfer Protocol\par
\par
Simple Mail Transfer Protocol\par
\par
Cyber attacks here include:\par
\par
SQL Injection\par
\par
Phishing\par
\par
Cross-Site Scripting\par
\par
These attacks target web applications and users.\par
\par
12. How Hackers Use the OSI Model\par
\par
Hackers study the OSI model to:\par
\par
find weak layers\par
\par
intercept traffic\par
\par
exploit vulnerabilities\par
\par
Example:\par
\par
Layer\tab Possible Attack\par
Physical\tab hardware tampering\par
Data Link\tab ARP spoofing\par
Network\tab IP spoofing\par
Transport\tab SYN flood\par
Session\tab session hijacking\par
Presentation\tab SSL attacks\par
Application\tab SQL injection\par
13. How Cybersecurity Experts Use the OSI Model\par
\par
Security experts use the OSI model to:\par
\par
build firewalls\par
\par
detect attacks\par
\par
monitor traffic\par
\par
secure networks\par
\par
Example tools:\par
\par
Wireshark\par
\par
Snort\par
\par
Nmap\par
\par
These tools analyze different OSI layers.\par
\par
\f3\u9989?\f0  Simple summary\par
\par
The OSI Model is a 7-layer system explaining how computers communicate.\par
\par
Each layer has different responsibilities, and both hackers and cybersecurity experts study it carefully.\par
\par
If you want, I can also explain:\par
\par
\f2\bullet  The easiest trick to memorize the 7 OSI layers in 10 seconds\par
\bullet  How hackers attack each OSI layer in real life\par
\bullet  How tools like Kali Linux use the OSI model\par
\bullet  Real examples of OSI model attacks used by hackers\par
\par
Just tell me \f4\u-10179?\u-9139?\f0 .\par
\par
4\par
\par
Alright \f4\u-10179?\u-9139?\f0  since you chose 4, let\rquote s explain how hackers attack each layer of the OSI Model in real life, one step at a time and in very simple language.\par
\par
Remember: the OSI model has 7 layers, and attackers can target each layer differently.\par
\par
1. Layer 1 \f2\emdash  Physical Layer Attack\par
\par
This layer deals with hardware and cables.\par
\par
Examples:\par
\par
Ethernet cables\par
\par
Network cards\par
\par
Switch ports\par
\par
Wi-Fi signals\par
\par
How attackers exploit it\par
\par
An attacker may:\par
\par
\bullet  plug a rogue device into a company network\par
\bullet  physically tap a cable to capture traffic\par
\bullet  steal hardware\par
\bullet  install malicious USB devices\par
\par
Example attack:\par
Someone secretly connects a small hacking device to a network port inside an office.\par
\par
Cybersecurity prevention:\par
\par
physical security\par
\par
locked server rooms\par
\par
CCTV cameras\par
\par
port security\par
\par
2. Layer 2 \emdash  Data Link Layer Attack\par
\par
This layer uses MAC addresses to identify devices in a local network.\par
\par
Protocols here include:\par
\par
Ethernet\par
\par
Address Resolution Protocol\par
\par
Common attack\par
\par
ARP Spoofing\par
\par
How it works (simple):\par
\par
A hacker joins the same network.\par
\par
The hacker pretends to be the router.\par
\par
Devices send their traffic to the hacker instead.\par
\par
This allows the hacker to:\par
\par
intercept passwords\par
\par
monitor data\par
\par
manipulate traffic\par
\par
Protection:\par
\par
ARP inspection\par
\par
network segmentation\par
\par
secure switches\par
\par
3. Layer 3 \emdash  Network Layer Attack\par
\par
This layer uses IP addresses to route data across networks.\par
\par
Main protocol:\par
\par
Internet Protocol\par
\par
Common attacks\par
\par
IP Spoofing\par
\par
What happens:\par
\par
The attacker changes their IP address to appear like another device.\par
\par
Why hackers do this:\par
\par
hide identity\par
\par
bypass security\par
\par
launch bigger attacks\par
\par
Another attack:\par
\par
Packet Sniffing\par
\par
This allows attackers to capture network packets and analyze them.\par
\par
Protection:\par
\par
packet filtering\par
\par
intrusion detection systems\par
\par
network monitoring\par
\par
4. Layer 4 \emdash  Transport Layer Attack\par
\par
This layer manages data delivery and reliability.\par
\par
Protocols used here:\par
\par
Transmission Control Protocol\par
\par
User Datagram Protocol\par
\par
Common attack\par
\par
SYN Flood Attack\par
\par
Simple explanation:\par
\par
A server receives a request to start a connection.\par
\par
The attacker sends thousands of fake requests.\par
\par
The server becomes overloaded.\par
\par
Real users cannot connect.\par
\par
This is a type of Distributed Denial-of-Service Attack.\par
\par
Protection:\par
\par
rate limiting\par
\par
firewalls\par
\par
load balancing\par
\par
5. Layer 5 \emdash  Session Layer Attack\par
\par
This layer manages sessions between two devices.\par
\par
Example:\par
When you log into a website.\par
\par
Attack example\par
\par
Session Hijacking\par
\par
How it works:\par
\par
A user logs into a website.\par
\par
The hacker steals the session ID.\par
\par
The hacker uses it to access the account.\par
\par
The system thinks the hacker is the real user.\par
\par
Protection:\par
\par
session encryption\par
\par
secure cookies\par
\par
short session timeouts\par
\par
6. Layer 6 \emdash  Presentation Layer Attack\par
\par
This layer manages:\par
\par
encryption\par
\par
compression\par
\par
data formatting\par
\par
Common technologies:\par
\par
Secure Sockets Layer\par
\par
Transport Layer Security\par
\par
Attack example\par
\par
SSL Stripping\par
\par
What happens:\par
\par
A website normally uses HTTPS.\par
\par
The attacker forces the connection to HTTP.\par
\par
Data becomes unencrypted.\par
\par
Now the attacker can see:\par
\par
passwords\par
\par
messages\par
\par
sensitive data\par
\par
Protection:\par
\par
HTTPS\par
\par
TLS encryption\par
\par
HSTS security policies\par
\par
7. Layer 7 \emdash  Application Layer Attack\par
\par
This is the most targeted layer by hackers.\par
\par
Why?\par
\par
Because it interacts directly with users and applications.\par
\par
Protocols here include:\par
\par
Hypertext Transfer Protocol\par
\par
File Transfer Protocol\par
\par
Simple Mail Transfer Protocol\par
\par
Common attacks\par
\par
SQL Injection\par
\par
Example:\par
\par
A hacker enters malicious code into a website login form.\par
\par
This can allow the attacker to:\par
\par
access databases\par
\par
steal user information\par
\par
bypass login systems\par
\par
Another attack:\par
\par
Cross-Site Scripting\par
\par
This injects malicious scripts into websites.\par
\par
Protection:\par
\par
input validation\par
\par
secure coding\par
\par
web application firewalls\par
\par
Simple Way to Understand Everything\par
\par
Think of the OSI model like a building with 7 floors.\par
\par
Each floor has different security risks.\par
\par
Floor\tab What Happens\tab Attack Example\par
1\tab hardware\tab cable tapping\par
2\tab device communication\tab ARP spoofing\par
3\tab routing\tab IP spoofing\par
4\tab connections\tab SYN flood\par
5\tab sessions\tab session hijacking\par
6\tab encryption\tab SSL stripping\par
7\tab applications\tab SQL injection\par
\par
\f3\u9989?\f0  Important cybersecurity tip\par
\par
Most modern cyber attacks happen mainly at:\par
\par
Layer 3\par
\par
Layer 4\par
\par
Layer 7\lang9\par
}
 
